# SI-GuidedProject-336688-1665726458
Movie Recommendation Based on Emotion Using Web Scraping Using IBM
About the project:Recommender systems have become an answer to the need for personalization. The customer usually provides the recommender system with data such as the characteristics of the product he is looking for, his ratings, demographic data, etc. The recommender system applies one or several recommendation techniques to these data and then recommends products to the customers. In order to provide reliable recommendations, the recommender system needs to capture exactly the customer's needs and preferences. However, for subjective and complex products such as movies, music, perfume, the task of rating or describing the desired product characteristics is quite difficult for customers. Moreover, as user preferences for these subjective products change constantly according to their emotions, the traditional user profile is not sufficient to understand and capture these changes. To solve these problems, we propose to use an Emotion-based Recommender System (E-MRS) that can capture customer preferences according to their emotions. Emotion plays an important role in rational and intelligent behavior, thus, we incorporate user emotions into the recommendation process.

One of the underlying targets of movies is to evoke emotions in their viewers. IMDb offers all the movies for all genres. Therefore the movie titles can be scraped from the IMDb list to recommend to the user. IMDb does not have an API, for accessing the information on movies and TV Series. Therefore we have to perform scraping. Scraping is used for accessing information from a website which is usually done with APIs.The scraper is written in Python and uses lxml for parsing the web pages. BeautifulSoup is used for pulling data out of HTML and XML files. Anticipation’, ‘Disgust’, ‘Fear’, ‘Joy’, ‘Sad’, ‘Surprise’, ‘Trust’. Here these are taken as input and the corresponding movies would be displayed for the emotion. The correspondence of every emotion with the genre of movies is listed below: Based on the input emotion, the corresponding genre would be selected and all the top movies of that genre would be recommended to the user.
Video demo link:


  

